# Decided to write down about my progress on programming as otherwise I don't think I will be self motivated improve myself.

Actually started looking on Haskell yesterday but didn't think of posting it so I'm just gonna start from today.

Took m some time for me to install ghci (haskell compiler) and preety much relied on this [guide](https://chocolatey.org/install).

Standard library functions that I learned on my first day are:
1. **head** - select the first element of a list.
> head [1,2,3,4,5] -> 1
2. **tail** - remove the first element from a list.
> tail [1,2,3,4,5] -> [2,3,4,5]
3. **!!** - select the *nth* element of a list.
> [1,2,3,4,5] !! 2 -> 3 
4. **take** - select the first *n* elements of a list.
> take 3 [1,2,3,4,5] -> [1,2,3]
5. **drop** - remove the first *n* elements from a list.
> drop 3 [1,2,3,4,5] -> [4,5]
6. **length** - calculate the length of a list.
> length [1,2,3,4,5] -> 5
7. **sum** - calculate the sum of a list of numbers.
> sum [1,2,3,4,5] -> 15
8. **product** - calculate the product of a list of numbers.
> product [1,2,3,4,5] -> 120
9. **++** - append lists (can append more than two, same element, appended in order).
> [1,2,3] ++ [4,5] -> [1,2,3,4,5] , [1] ++ [2] ++ [3] -> [1,2,3] , [1,2,3] ++ [2,3,4] -> [1,2,3,2,3,4]
10. **reverse** - reverse a list.
> reverse [1,2,3,4,5] -> [5,4,3,2,1]

### Function Application

In Haskell, **function application** is denoted using **space**, and **multipication** is denoted using `*`.
> f a b + c`*`d

Function application has **higher priority** than all other operations.

### First Script (Test.hs)

x 'f' y is just *syntactic sugar* for f x y.

div is enclose **back** quotes, not forward.

(10/4) gives 2.5 but (div 10 4) gives 2

The command to reload the script is :r

### Naming Requirements

Function and argument names must begin with a lower-case letter.
> myFun   fun1    arg_2   x'

List arguments have an **s** suffix on the name.
> xs  ns  nss

## Layout Rule

In a sequence of definitions, each definition must begin in precisely the **same column** to avoide the need for explicit syntax.

## GHCi Commands

1. :load name(:l) - load script name.
2. :reload (:r) - reload current script.
3. :edit (:e) - edit current script.
4. :type expr (:t) - show type of expr
5. :? - show all commands
6. :quit (:q) - quot ghci

## I failed to solve the exercise questions and I'm too sleepy. I will try them again tomorrow.
